what's up everyone it's wade patterson
and i am passionate about impactful
communication
and i'm excited because i'm bringing you
my first eight part
series on a subject i'm going to do a
few of these throughout
2021 on various topics and this
is all about how to launch a podcast
we're going to go through an eight-part
series and explain from start to finish
everything from why you would launch a
podcast
to what kind of equipment you might need
to
how do you do a great interview all of
these steps along the way
we're going to have various videos for
it's an eight part series and by the end
of it you'll know
everything you need to know about
podcasting
before we jump into video one i want you
to hit that subscribe button and like
this video
and comment below let me know if the
video was helpful
or if there's any other questions that
you have related to podcasting
so some of you may have seen another
video that i did which
was part of a speech on impactful
communication
and i called a podcasting challenge
the rogan i challenged people to launch
a podcast
and at least post five episodes because
you can't just do one you need to do a
few to actually get
in the mix of it to give it a genuine
attempt and see if it starts to provide
you
any value so on top of the rogan i want
to provide
some actual helpful content for those of
you who are brave enough to take on the
rogan challenge
i want you to have the tools that you
need to do that
in this video which is video one of the
series we're talking about the why
why on earth would you want to launch a
podcast in the first place
i was not a regular podcast listener a
couple of years ago
i had many friends who would tell me
about great podcasts that i should
download
but i didn't get what all of the hype
was about
that was until i was on a work trip and
i was flying from kelowna british
columbia
to toronto ontario and on this flight
i discovered that i was so sick of my
own music
i had thousands of songs on my phone but
i kept hitting next song
next song next song i kept skipping from
song to song
and pretty soon there was no song on my
phone that was going to satisfy me i was
sick
of all of the songs i had listened to
them too many times
and at the next airport because toronto
was the layover and eventually i was
going to washington
i had the opportunity to put out a
message on facebook
and i asked my facebook friends what are
some great podcasts
that you enjoy listening to some
business related podcasts
i was blown away how many answers came
my way
instantly and i started to download some
of the interesting sounding podcasts and
on that next flight
i began listening to them and right away
it was this aha moment
because no longer was i just killing
time
listening to random top 40 songs maybe a
little ariana grande no judgment
instead i was educating myself i was
learning interesting things about
various topics
and i've never been great at reading
books
i'm a very slow reader but i was
absorbing
information in an entertaining way when
i got back to kelowna this
habit of listening to podcasts started
to develop
and instead of on my drive to work
listening to random songs
i replaced those with podcasts or if i
was doing a workout at the gym
i would listen to a podcast so i was
exercising but i was also exercising my
brain
at the same time and for the last two
years i have listened to an incredible
amount of podcasts
and through my conversations with
friends i've understood that they as
well
listen to many podcasts so here's the
why
summed up nicely podcasts allow
you to capture somebody's attention
now what i just said capture somebody's
attention
that is one of the most coveted and most
difficult things to do these days
it is so hard to capture an audience's
attention
even listening to this video right now
and video content is some of the most
interesting content you can absorb
but i wonder how many people have
skipped already ahead part way through
this video or how many people maybe have
the audio open but they're doing
something else they're multitasking
or perhaps you're on social media and
you're scrolling through
and you see a video that's 20 seconds
and you think
uh do i really want to dedicate 20
seconds of my life to watch this video
can't do it and you scroll right past we
are
so picky with our time and what we put
our attention toward
however podcasts have somehow
circumvented this rule because we will
listen to a 20 minute
or a 40 minute or even a three hour
podcast from start to finish now it's
important to know the context of how
we're listening
we're not sitting on our couch on the
edge of our seat right beside our
speaker listening
to that podcast from start to finish no
we're in our vehicle for 15 minutes
listening to part of an
episode and then we get to the gym and
we listen to another
hour of that same episode and then we
get back home and we cook our meal and
on our google home
speaker we listen to another half hour
of that episode and
bit by bit throughout a week we absorb
large amounts of content and if you
are able to create a podcast with
sound that is decent content that is
interesting you have a real potential
to not only grow an audience but grow an
audience that is spending a lot of time
absorbing your content and a lot of time
sharing their attention with you so
podcasting can be
hugely beneficial there are a lot of
different ways you can go with your
podcast
but if this is something that you want
to take on or even if you're interested
about learning more
check out the next videos in this series
because i am going to help you
launch your first podcast and you might
be wondering well
i want to do a youtube interview series
but have the podcast
as a byproduct even if that's the case
this series should really help you learn
the skills that it takes to do that as
well
thank you so much for watching this
video again make sure you subscribe make
sure you like this video
and check out the others that will be
part of this playlist as part
of this series on why you should launch
a podcast